[Music]
welcome to the seven-minute marketing
podcast with your host Pam did nerve as
a leading marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
help you achieve better alignment
between sales and marketing you enjoy
this podcast please share it with your
colleagues and we review on iTunes now
let's get started a listener of this
podcast Kris posted a question what is
the best way to integrate branding and a
messaging into sales
how can marketing help sales stay on
brand first of all that's define what
brain is what is brand or branding mean
a brand is being a logo for sure it's
how a company as a whole presents itself
how employees behave and how customers
perceive the company in a way a brand is
a business organization or entities
identity branding is the act of a
creating that brand and jbs a that
nicely branding is the art of aligning
what you want people to think about your
company with what people actually do
think about your company and vice versa
if brain is everything a business
organization or entity does then sales
represents that vision of the company in
a very personal way therefore they need
to thoroughly understand the essence of
a company's brand and the best way to
train sales about that is to incorporate
the branding or brand as a part of the
sales onboarding and a continuous
training many companies have for more
sales onboarding with 1 to 2 days of
training as a part of the agenda they
usually have one hour sessions about
brain a brain manager will come in and
talk about the essence of a brand brand
personas in the context of a corporate
cultures and a brain guidelines such as
logo usage color palette and the will
even share presentation templates some
of them will even discuss how to use
logos with
partners and the customers if sales plan
to do coal marketing for companies that
don't have formal onboarding I'd
recommend you check with your marketing
manager you need to know where the brain
guy is and how to use logo tagline
colors
correctly at the bare minimal use the
official company's templates to create
your presentations prints also ask about
messaging I define messaging as what
salespeople can or should say about
products services offerings and the
company the most frequently asked
question when I was working with sales
for new product launches was what can
they say about new products therefore is
important to arm your salespeople with
talking points in the product messaging
talking point can change depending on
sales stage and the individual
salespeople
however salespeople still need some
baseline to start with right so for a
new product they are new features
therefore how should we prioritize the
features what are the key benefits you
need to provide some guidelines about
the key features and benefits that
salespeople can highlight when they
engage with customers it's like giving
comedians a script they may not follow
the script completely but a script give
comedians something to start with and
improvise around and that's what
messaging does it gives those people
talking points for new products they can
pick and choose what to say and how to
say it using the best judgement in the
situation they are in so what is the
best way to communicate messaging well
the best way to educate those people is
to bring your messaging to the sales
huddle meetings walk them through the
framework and the key talking points
encourage them to ask questions tell
them where the file will be and follow
up with email you know what follow up
with several emails and here is ugly
reality no matter how many times you
come in a que they still going to come
to you and ask you hey you know
you send us that messaging information a
while back can you send that again so
make sure you have the link ready to
send or if you have a sales content
library you can direct them to the
library and ask them to download from
their following brain guidelines and the
messaging helps sales people stay on
brand and the best way to share that
information is to be part of a sales
communications onboarding and training
so Chris I hope I answer your question
how do you share information with your
sales team let me know so we can keep
learning from each other all right
thanks a lot have a great day
[Music]